NAME: GOPINATH N.k
MAIL: nk.gopikannan2@gmail.com

1. Difference between HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2

ANS: HTTP/1.1 relies on the transport layer to avoid buffer overflow, each new TCP connection requires a separate flow control mechanism. 
HTTP/2, however, multiplexes streams within a single TCP connection,and will have to implement flow control in a different manner. 
     
     HTTP/2 differs from HTTP/1.1 in many ways, with some features providing greater levels of control that can be used to better optimize 
web application performance and other features simply improving upon the previous protocol. Now that you have gained a high-level 
perspective on the variations between the two protocols, you can consider how such factors as multiplexing, stream prioritization, 
flow control, server push, and compression in HTTP/2 will affect the changing landscape of web development.

2. http version history 

ANS: 1) HTTP/0.9 was proposed in March 1991. 
     2) HTTP/1.0 In May 1996 he was released the document RFC 1945, which served as the basis for the HTTP / 1.0. 
     3) HTTP/1.1 The current version, adopted in June 1999. TCP-connection can remain opened after sending a response to the request
The client now have to send information about the host name. 
     4) HTTP/2 February 11, 2015 published the final version of the blueprint the next version Protocol. Unlike previous versions, HTTP/2 is a binary protocol. 

3. List 5 difference between Browser JS(console) vs Nodejs 

ANS:   
  1) Javascript is a programming language that is used for writing scripts on the website. while, NodeJS is a Javascript runtime environment.
  2) Js is basically used on the client-side And NodeJS is mostly used on the server-side.
  3) Javascript can only be run in the browsers but NodeJS code can be run outside the browser.
  4) Javascript is capable enough to add HTML and play with the DOM. While,Nodejs does not have capability to add HTML tags.
  5) Javascript can run in any browser engine. While ,Nodejs can only run in V8 engine of google chrome.

4. what happens when you type a URL in the address bar in the browser?

ANS:
  1) You type maps.google.com into the address bar of your browser.
  2) The browser checks the cache for a DNS record to find the corresponding IP address of maps.google.com
  3) If the requested URL is not in the cache, ISP’s DNS server initiates a DNS query to find the IP address of the server that hosts maps.google.com
  4) The browser initiates a TCP connection with the server.
  5) The browser sends an HTTP request to the webserver.
  6) The server handles the request and sends back a HTTP response.
  7) The browser displays the HTML content (for HTML responses, which is the most common).